okay it's mark Wiens here today we are
gonna make the Thai Street food recipe
for guiyang which is grilled chicken I
got two big fat birds let's marinate
these bad boys and let's throw them on
the grill and let's chow down
okay so this is a Thai dish that you
want to kind of plan ahead because we're
going to have to marinate them overnight
and then we'll grill them the next day
you're going to need chicken we're doing
tubers today for the marinade we've got
a soy sauce normal normal light soy
sauce fish sauce
this is palm sugar black peppercorns a
ton of garlic
and the last ingredient is cilantro
roots coriander roots this is not a must
but it is included in normal and
authentic Thai Guiyang but if you can't
find this you might just use a little
bit of like coriander powder first step
is to slice up the cilantro roots and
then you can peel your garlic and I'm
talking a ton of garlic here I think I
used four whole bulbs which was like 30
or 40 cloves I forgot to mention we're
also going to throw a little bit of
lemongrass in our marinade to give it
some good fragrance then finely sliced
the lemongrass we're gonna start
pounding up our ingredients the black
pepper the garlic the coriander roots
and the lemongrass just kind of throw in
a bit of each of the ingredients smash
them up and then add them to a bigger
bowl and keep going until you're
finished with with all the all the
ingredients you're using if you don't
have a mortar and pestle you can throw
all the ingredients into a food
processor or a blender but a stone
mortar and pestle works the best you
want to pound all the ingredients kind
of keep it in equal proportions but
overall it doesn't really matter as you
can mix it all together in a bowl but
pound until you've got a nice coarse
buttery paste and you may need to do a
couple batches scoop it out and start
again if you are in a hot and humid
climate such as Bangkok you should be
dripping with sweat have some extremely
fragrant aromas coming out of here but
you can see this is just straight-up all
about those ingredients ground up then
you want to add about two tablespoons of
the buttery kind of palm sugar into the
into the mixture four tablespoons of soy
sauce just one tablespoon of fish sauce
and one tablespoon of dark soy sauce for
for color then you really want to start
mixing and mashing up that marinade
making sure the palm should
really gets mixed in well it should be
kind of buttery kind of sticky and if
it's too thick you can throw in some
water I added about half a cup of water
to tone it down
we're gonna chop up the chickens and
we're gonna sort of butterfly them so
this is how you do it using a sharp
knife on the breast size of the chicken
you want to just slice down the middle
until you reach the bone you can chop
off the neck too I think we'll cook that
separately so it doesn't get in the way
like try to flatten it out break the
backbone this is how you're going to cut
the chicken butterfly cut it see it
looks all flat and it's going to grill
perfectly it's like a oh it kind of
looks like a sumo wrestler put your
chicken into an open-faced metal or
plastic container and you can begin to
scoop in that chunky awesome marinade
make sure you massage the chicken and
get all those flavors deep into the
chicken then you want to turn it over do
the same thing anoint it with that
beautiful marinade don't forget to rub
all that goodness under the wings and in
all those little places then you want to
do the exact same thing for the other
chicken and then you can just stack them
together okay so that's it for the
marinade I'm gonna put this in the
fridge overnight possibly stir it a
couple of times and then we're gonna
grill it up tomorrow the next day the
first thing you want to do is get your
charcoal going the chicken is going to
smell amazing with all that garlic and
black pepper and coriander so we're
going to get these chickens assembled
using some bamboo skewers which is the
popular thing to do in Thailand each
chicken needs four bamboo sticks you
want to put one on either side of the
chicken running from the neck down the
length of the drumstick then start with
the next side and twist a piece of metal
wire to tighten the two bamboo sticks
together then move to the other side
squeeze the sticks together and it
should feel like the chicken is really
like secure and tight in the sticks
and then again fasten it with another
piece of metal wire do this to both
sides of the chicken and you're good to
go now you want to grill the chicken on
a very low heat and you want to spread
out that charcoal I like to add some
some old leftover charcoal ash to kind
of tone down the fire when the fire is
ready you can go ahead and
lay the chickens flat on the grill and
you want to scoop on some of that extra
juices and marinade as it begins to slow
cook we're going to move over here and
get started on our chili dipping sauce
which is known as Jim JAL add one and a
half tablespoons of dried chili flakes
also one and a half tablespoons of cocoa
which is the ground toasted sticky rice
about 1 tablespoon of sugar 3
tablespoons of fish sauce and about 8
tablespoons of tamarind juice which you
can get by adding hot water to a block
of tamarind dry tamarind fruit stir it
all up then finally slice some cilantro
and toss it into the sauce mmm that's
sweet and sour and spicy well that it's
going to go awesome with these guys make
sure you monitor the chicken pretty well
depending on how hot your fire is but it
should be about 15 to 20 minutes later
you want to flip the chicken over for
the first time the chicken is coming
along nicely but I'm going to go back
after flipping them and add some more of
that lovely marinade and just baste
these guys in holy
in order to cook the fat the fat like
breasts of the chicken you can kind of
set them up like a teepee a little
lean-to so that gets some good heat onto
the edges of the chicken okay it's been
about an hour and a half and these guys
are I think this one is done the other
one needs a little more time make sure
you untie that wire and then slide out
the bamboo sticks before chopping up the
chicken a big Chinese cleaver really
helps do the job but you could also do
it with any kind of knife first slice
down the center backbone of the chicken
then holding the drumstick you can sort
of chop it into nice handhold chunks and
at this point you're going to be
salivating I can't resist my temptation
this is just irresistible I'm going to
go straight in with the the drumstick
Oh oh that's so juicy that's just
layered with flavor that marinade has
literally penetrated the entire chicken
I just got so many flavors in that bite
that I'm almost too excited to even
explain what I just tasted mmm
mmm okay so buy some chicken get your
grill lit do some Thai style Guiyang
thank you so much for watching this
video please give it a thumbs up and
also don't forget to hit that subscribe
button